No one is killing anyone!
Is that understood?
I gave you an order!
No!
Unbelievable.
You made one hell of an accusation.
All we've done is speak the truth.
According to the rules of parlay,
you have to give us a chance to refute it.
You already confessed.
To the fact that we have werewolves
that breached your compound, yes.
In search of a vast collection
of Order artifacts you now claim
were stolen by a mysterious third party.
You really expect us to believe that?
I expect you to give me a chance
to prove it.
After all...
you initiated parlay.
You can try.
Thank you.
You can't prove it, can you?
Actually...
I think I can.
You shouldn't have done that.
You're only making things
harder for yourself.
Yeah, well,
I didn't think that was possible.
At least Vera got my message.
You hope.
Well, if she didn't,
that means this binding spell's bullshit,
and I'm free to wolf out
and tear this place apart.
She did.
Not that it matters. You don't
really think she's gonna save us?
She chose the both of us because
she's hoping the Prometheans kill us.
If she wanted us dead,
she would've taken us out a long time ago.
Oh, come on. Why would she kill us herself
when she could sacrifice us
for the greater good?
It's a win-win. We're dead,
and there's no blood on her hands.
We'll have to wait and see who's right.
I'd give up. Plead for mercy.
Yeah, I'm sure you would.
Orbin, if you think
you can trick me into surrendering
because you can make Alyssa
your ventriloquist doll,
we're gonna be here a long time.
Alyssa's her own person, Jack.
She's saying that
'cause she believes in us.
-Yeah, sure she does.
- Actually, I do.
You know what they make
this juice out of, right?
Give that back.
-I said give it to me!
- Give her the flask!
No!
That's cannibalism, you asshole!
Stop it, you're killing him!
Obrin! Look, I'm...
I'm sorry about your tree thing.
I didn't mean to hurt it. I don't want to.
But I will.
I will rip this fucking place apart if you
don't back off and let me and Alyssa go.
Ask Alyssa, she'll tell you.
We already know
what you're capable of.
Your fate was sealed
when you stole our magic,
when you killed our friend.
You have to pay for your crimes.
Look, one, I did not
fucking steal anything,
and two, I was defending myself.
They don't believe you.
-Talk to them, make them believe.
-I can't...
because I don't believe you.
Well, I guess we're in
for a long night, then.
Okay, we need to find something
to prove Foley robbed us.
How does Foley even know magic?
And why does he teach it to randos?
Hey. This is why.
Power to the people.
Sharing the wealth is so gross.
My ancestors worked hard
so I wouldn't have to.
Randall?
He knows we're in the Order.
I gotta warn Hamish.
This is an enchanted plastron.
It's used for lunar magic.
Wait a minute.
Yeah, this was in our den.
I did it.
I proved Foley robbed the Order!
Vera's gonna love this.
-You proved it?
-Okay, fine, you helped, wow.
Need the spotlight much?
Orbin!
I know you think that you have us trapped,
but it's the other way around.
Why don't you do yourself a favor
and let us out?
Orbin!
He says no.
Actually,
he's just laughing.
This tree used to be human?
He's the Promethean you killed.
What did they do to him?
Ensured that he can still
contribute to the Common,
and you almost killed him again.
Well, is he gonna be all right?
-Do you even care?
-I told you, I didn't mean to hurt it.
You'll hurt anyone, anything,
as long as you get your way.
That's all that matters to you.
No, no, no, what matters to me is getting
you out of this farmer's market from Hell
and back to Belgrave in one piece.
I'm staying here.
Hey, hey, are you okay?
I'm fine.
-Alyssa.
What the fuck are you doing to her?
That's not us.
Alyssa's withdrawing from the Egregore.
Jack, I need that juice.
-No, you don't.
-Yes, she does.
There is nothing more painful
than Egregore withdrawal.
Oh, shit.
She's withdrawing too quickly.
Even without juice,
she should have remained connected
until morning.
Something's eroding her connection
and keeping her from the Egregore.
Something?
Or someone?
I can't tell, either.
This vault was filled
with ancient artifacts,
grimoires, ritual items...
Thousands of years of magic history,
traditions and knowledge,
gone.
Just like that.
Stolen by a demon,
the same demon who robbed you.
All I see is an empty room.
Xavier, please.
I'm showing you how vulnerable we are.
Or you're trying to deceive us.
I'm telling the truth.
But it's not the whole truth.
Is it?
I don't know what you mean.
Vera...
Can I call you Vera?
I'm going to call you Vera.
This is very simple.
Your werewolf killed our colleague.
All we want is vengeance.
And we're going to take it from you...
unless you can convince me otherwise.
Whatever you think you know,
you're wrong.
Uh, well...
We'll learn the truth soon enough.
Imagine.
-This knowledge...
...once belonged to the world,
before powerful and selfish elite
began hoarding it,
-hunting down anyone who defied them,
persecuting them,
sacrificing them.
Joan of Arc, the Salem Witch Trials,
Helen Duncan.
Praxis will rise up
against the corrupt oligarchy,
and restore power to the world.
Magic for the masses.
Wow, that was amazing.
I've seen a lot of magic acts in my life,
but I've never seen one
that uses social justice as its hook.
Well done. Like, really well done.
That was real.
Of course, totally.
I didn't see the wires or anything.
I promise.
Okay, time to go.
No, Salvador.
It's all right.
Bring him here.
I've seen you around. What's your name?
Uh, Hamish Duke. I'm a TA for Krowchuk.
A philosopher.
Technically,
I'm a failed law student.
But you'd consider yourself
an intellectual and educated man?
I wouldn't go that far.
Hm, but you're not easily fooled, though.
You need proof.
Hamish.
What if I told you...
that inside of you...
...inside of all of you...
there was a beating soul
of pure energy and power,
and all you had to do was accept it,
to believe in it,
to harness it?
I'd say,
"Use the force, Luke."
This is going to hurt me
more than it hurts you.
Cuir dol air!
Whoa!
-Amazing! That looked so real!
-Wow!
-No, no, no, you idiots.
It's real!
Of course, guys, it's totally real.
These straps totally came out of nowhere.
They definitely didn't pop out
of a secret compartment in the arm.
-You're ruining everything.
-Happy to help.
Next time you come at me,
don't come alone.
Big hand for Professor Foley, everybody.
Do you know how hard it is
to enchant a plastron?
And you go and destroy it
with your dumb crest?
-It's such a waste.
-It's our job.
Spoiling the fun for the rest of us?
Is that what you call "hunting us down?"
Hm?
Stabbing Hamish, torturing people?
That's obligation, dumbass.
Silence, subservience, observance.
Remember?
You do what you're told, or else.
Okay, so you were just following orders.
You know that being a werewolf is magic?
I prefer to think of it as "magical."
Whatever gets you
through the night, sunshine.
But no matter how you cut it,
you're just a lousy practitioner
like the rest of us.
And staring at it isn't going to make
the text come any faster.
-Oh, ha! Shows what you know.
Finally.
Can we go now? Vera's waiting.
Great, yeah. Tell her I said hi.
You're not coming?
-I've been waiting for you--
-Foley summoned Zecchia.
He's the reason Lilith is trapped
in the demon realm.
He's the guy I'm going to tear apart.
If he robbed the order,
Vera's going to want to talk to him.
It's not a problem.
She can talk to him after I've killed him.
Trust me, you do not want to get
on Vera Stone's bad side.
Okay, fine.
I won't kill him
until she's talked to him.
But tell her I've got dibs.
Yeah, I'll let her know.
Alyssa, drink this.
Who are you?
It's me, Jack.
We fight, we kiss,
we fight, we fight, we kiss?
Jack?
I feel I'm drifting in and out.
These voices and pieces of me,
I'm losing them.
Jack, once you're connected to
the Egregore, you can't just disconnect.
She has to be weaned off slowly.
I need the juice, Jack.
She needs more juice.
Yeah, I get it!
Fuck, this guy's an asshole.
I can hear you
without the Egregore.
I'm not giving her
any more of that damn juice.
Hey, we'll get through this, I promise.
You're always there for me Jack.
My best enemy.
-I'm not your enemy.
-Then what are you?
Alyssa? Alyssa!
Jack!
She's foaming at the mouth!
We can help her,
but I need you to do something for me.
-Anything.
-Surrender.
Anything but that.
Then whatever happens to her next
is on your hands.
Look, how about I tear you apart?
Would you like that?
No.
And neither would Alyssa.
All right. All right.
We have waited long enough for
your disciple and her irrefutable proof.
Just bring us the binding ribbons
so we can end this charade and you can
face the consequences of your actions.
What are you doing to my disciple?
We've done nothing. She's fine.
We... served shellfish for lunch.
Grand Magus, I...
Bad time?
And Foley?
Where's he?
Um... Hamish lost him.
So I left Randall at his house,
just in case he shows up.
But don't worry, he's under strict orders
not to kill anyone.
Oh, yes, 'cause we all know how compliant
these damn werewolves are.
That's not enough.
Uh, I, uh, took a photo of a sigil.
And Hamish said Foley basically did
a whole magic show.
Our kind of magic.
None of this is enough to prove our case.
Nothing short of a confession is going
to be good enough for the Prometheans.
Find Foley. Bring him to me.
At once, Grand Magus.
Remember, say nothing of Alyssa
or the Egregore.
I know. I know.
I got your text.
A little more detail
would have been helpful.
Yeah, well, uh,
there wasn't enough room for
"The Prometheans are bunch
of two-faced assholes" on my forehead.
Did you ever consider telling me
about your previous encounters with them?
You didn't ask. Listen,
the Prometheans think we robbed them,
-and we didn't.
-I know.
Your colleagues identified the culprit.
Professor Cameron Foley? You know him?
Yeah, my Ethics professor.
All right, you guys really have
to reevaluate your hiring policies.
Yes, thank you, Mr. Morton, I will
certainly take that under consideration.
What are you waiting for? Bring him here.
Your friends have identified him.
They haven't captured him.
All right, well...
If you need me to buy some time,
I might have a plan.
Does it come with your usual body count?
Not if you catch Foley.
I'm going to surrender.
That's a terrible plan,
even by your standards!
Well, I am guilty.
I mean, I didn't rob them,
but I did kill one of their guys, so...
If you confess to these accusations,
I can't protect you anymore.
-You understand that, don't you?
-Yeah.
I read the book, and what can I say?
Rules are rules.
You have to follow them.
I can't argue with that.
And you do deserve to be punished
for your sins.
I got to admit,
I'm of two minds on that front.
You're not giving me much choice.
Not about choice at this point.
At least now they won't hurt Alyssa.
After all, she had nothing to do with it.
Oh, um...
I'm being told that
I have to go die now, so,
I guess this is goodbye.
Are you sure you want to do this?
Until you have a better idea,
this is the best I can do.
Well, I guess I'll see you when I see you.
You're dismissed.
You still have no evidence?
Oh, I have plenty of evidence.
I even have a suspect.
But I'm not going to waste your time
with it because you don't want proof.
I have no idea what you're talking about.
We came here in good faith,
seeking truth and--
Cut the shit, Xavier!
Jack Morton just phoned me.
He confessed to murdering your colleague.
There is only one reason he would give up.
You were torturing Alyssa Drake!
I find that deeply insulting.
Anything that happened to your disciple
was done to a willing participant.
Can you prove it?
As much as you can prove
some sinister enemy is working against us,
but it doesn't matter.
Your disciple confessed. We're done.
Not by a long shot.
You want revenge for your colleague,
but I still have the binding ribbons,
and you need me to renounce my claim
on those, or you'll be digging two graves.
What are you proposing?
Well, you wanted to observe
the Rules of Enoch.
So do I.
You can have your vengeance
as long as it's served the old way.
Blood atonement?
Jack Morton dies by noon tomorrow...
but he will die by my hand.
Agreed.
We'll tell our people.
Now you want to kill him?
Alyssa Drake has been compromised,
and Jack Morton has always been
a wildcard.
We should kill the Prometheans now,
while they're bound to our disciples,
and clean the slate.
We'd be declaring war with a group
I have no quarrel with.
The Council will not approve this action.
Do you see me asking for permission?
You give them those ribbons
and you might as well be signing
your own death warrant.
Gather Council. We need to meet now.
No, we can't make it brunch.
This is the worst stakeout car ever.
We might as well be driving a spaceship.
Probably because I didn't choose it
for stakeouts.
No, you chose it
because it's the most expensive.
So?
-He's not coming back.
-He's coming back.
Guys, I ransacked the place.
There's nothing else there.
There's no Order stuff,
no Knights stuff.
We'll find the... stuff.
We better find the... stuff.
What are you two morons looking for?
Nothing.
Fine.
I don't care anyway.
-You totally care.
-You care so hard.
"So fucking hard."
Whoa, Silence of the Lambs?
It's why I got into psychology.
That's... kind of cool.
That's... not the quote.
Um, what do you know?
Yeah, that's, word for word, the quote.
Yeah, I've seen the film
literally a million times.
Yeah, it's my favorite scene.
"So fucking hard."
That's pretty good.
So, what makes you think he's coming back?
Please, he's an adult male.
There's something in there
he can't live without.
It's like you two
with your precious "stuff."
You did not just profile us.
I totally did,
and I'm totally right.
Heads up.
-Blitz attack?
-Blitz attack. Let's go.
Uh-uh!
Vera wants him alive, remember?
No!
Damn it!
Some of these are second edition.
So what happens now?
We've agreed to the old ways of vengeance.
Blood atonement.
I read the book, but I don't remember
reading anything about this ritual.
This isn't atonement.
It's about something else.
What do you mean, something else?
The Rules of Enoch are pretty specific.
If you agree to blood atonement,
then I can't die until noon today,
and it has to be by Vera's hand.
-Who said anything about killing you?
I can't move.
Relax.
It's just a little restraint spell in case
you change your mind about cooperating.
What the fuck are you doing to me?
We're giving you a chance
to make a contribution.
You're not turning me
into one of those fucking trees.
Not everyone takes to the inducement,
but it's our duty to try.
Alyssa, help!
But I don't want to leave.
I don't care if he can hear me.
Okay.
No, no, no, no.
Get in. Get in. Get in. Get in.
Cuir baracáid air!
Well, that was a shitshow.
I'm surprised the Order
tracked us down so quickly.
What are you talking about?
It was your idea to invite Morton.
Yes. It was.
But, still...
Right. Right. Well, what's done is done.
We have to move. Here, hold this.
Eitil ar ais!
They're already here.
Just hurry up.
It's time to go.
I'd offer you one, but...
I'm sure you'd think
I was trying to poison you.
Don't take it personally.
More for me.
That was a difficult decision you made.
I'm not sure I'd be able to make it,
-or go through with it.
-Well...
You of all people should understand
the importance of the greater good.
You are, after all, a hive mind.
You figured it out.
Educated guess.
Xavier...
what if I'm right?
What if we have been targeted
by a common enemy?
It makes more sense
for us to work together.
Is the enemy of my enemy my friend...
or my enemy?
I guess that depends
on who you are in that equation.
I can be your friend.
Too bad you're my enemy.
You know, don't take it personally.
After 35 years in isolation,
everyone looks like an enemy.
That is true.
Woof. I'm fine.
For a tourist,
the guy knows some powerful magic.
Shh, quiet. He's still here.
-Fan out. Search the house.
-Okay.
-Someone has to take the basement. Not it.
-Not it.
There's no way that counts.
-Mm, totally counts.
-Wha...?
Damn it.
Guys, watch out for sigils
on the ceiling.
Come on.
Apareat...
sombulus magicus?
Hm.
I guess magic's not
a complete waste of time.
Crud.
And the floor!
Amateurs.
-Omnus sugili magici abaet.
Mediocre student, mediocre magician.
Your people have been hoarding magic
for hundreds of years,
and you're the sum of their skills?
Oh, I've got skills.
Exi ex modesta te crudam.
He's down here!
A little help?
-Who's mediocre now, Professor?
Hey, you okay?
Not bad, for an acolyte.
Are you kidding? I was fucking amazing.
Maybe you learn to take a compliment.
Whatever, Mom.
I'm trying to watch The Voice.
What was that?
Whoa, okay.
Yeah, she hit her head pretty bad.
Get Foley to Vera. I'll take care of her.
Let's go, "Professor of the Year."
Never seen anyone
take to the inducement so quickly.
Must be the werewolf in you.
Please just make it stop.
Take a deep breath.
This is gonna hurt.
No. No. No.
Stop it! You're killing him!
Hey. Jack.
Jack, can you hear us?
Jack.
What's so funny?
I was thinking, if...
Lilith was here right now here,
she would...
rip out his heart and feed it to him.
Yeah, she probably would.
If I'd just held on a little longer...
pulled a little harder--
Jack, it wasn't your fault.
It wasn't your fault.
Maybe this is my punishment.
For Pops...
and Lilith...
and you.
You should have left me behind.
You always tell me what to do.
And you still can't follow orders.
I hate myself...
for screwing everything up.
I pushed you away.
You didn't have another choice.
But all...
All I wanted...
You're the only one...
that made me want to live my own life.
Couldn't figure that out sooner?
I'm so sorry, Alyssa.
I'm sorry, too.
It's our way, Alyssa.
A life for a life.
The Order took one of ours,
the Order must give one of theirs.
He made a mistake.
Please, Orbin, your people will listen
to you. You can make this stop.
Have some juice.
You'll feel better.
You'll regret that later.
I already do.
I don't understand.
She seems like she wants to be here,
but she's not connecting.
Forget her.
She served her purpose.
Welcome home, Xavier.
Gather everyone.
It's time.
Now spill his blood on the soil.
End his pain,
and complete the atonement.
I know how you feel.
I do.
I've known Jack Morton for over a year...
and I want to kill him
at least once a week.
But we are not here
because of Jack Morton.
We are here because a common enemy
seeks to destroy us both,
and if we don't stop now
before it's too late, he will succeed.
You're stalling again.
I'm not stalling.
I'm negotiating.
I'm proposing an alliance.
We have both been attacked,
and our assailant is trying to convince us
to blame each other.
Stories.
Look at him.
Do you think he would confess to murder,
and not the robbery?
Jack Morton is willing to surrender
his life for Alyssa.
Give me the chance to do the same.
You want our secrets,
don't waste your time with Alyssa Drake.
Read my mind.
Um... You...
Drink this.
All of it.
Magus, don't!
Give us your mind and everything within.
Can you hear me?
Yes.
And now you can hear me.
Miseriam sempiternam!
What have you done?
I mixed an emotional amplifier
in my pina colada.
Now every moment of pain in my life
is screaming into your mind.
How can you bear this?
I bear it
because I already lived it.
A group of people we've never
even heard of robbed us blind.
Do you see that I believe that?
We must adapt, we must evolve,
or we are doomed.
In accordance to the Rules of Enoch,
I offer you my weapon in friendship.
Exsolvatur!
I need an address.
Ladies and gentlemen...
may I present Cameron Foley,
mediocre Ethics professor,
and the man who stole your magic.
You see, that right there is your problem.
"Me," "Mine," "Ours"...
Magic isn't something to be possessed,
not anymore.
You're too late.
We've already won.
Should I put the gag back on?
And I won "Professor of the Year" in '09.
-That was at a community college.
-Wow.
I know what he knows,
where he's hidden our artifacts.
How will you know
we're telling you the truth?
I'll know.
It is a shame
that it has come to this.
Now, you remember,
whatever happens next is on you.
Now, you still have time
to make this right.
You let me go,
and I will spare your lives.
Hm?
Let's go-- Okay, all right.
We do have a common enemy.
Mm. Apology accepted.
-I didn't--
-Now let my disciple go.
Where is Jack?
These look longer to you?
That was a big risk you took.
There was no guarantee
your friends would find Foley in time.
Well, I have faith in my friends.
I'm complimenting you, Mr. Morton.
That was a Magus-level strategy
you devised.
I always knew you had potential.
Yeah.
My ability to turn into a tree really
sets me apart from the other disciples.
There's a lot more to you than you think.
Like what?
Well, for centuries,
the Hermetic Order of the Blue Rose
has been awaiting
the fulfillment of a prophecy,
of a chosen one to lead them
from the darkness,
and I think that you, Jack Morton,
are that chosen one.
You just told a joke.
In college, I was the treasurer
of my improv troupe.
I selected you
because you have a value system
forged by something other than privilege.
So I am a chosen one.
It's getting late.
Finish your potion so we can get going.
I'm not sure what's worse,
the transformation or the antidote.
Just anything to end
this abominable mental connection.
-Yeah, look, about that, I was gonna say--
-Don't ruin the moment, Mr. Morton.
Last thing I need is your pity.
I'm sorry about your daughter.
You moved me?
What if I had a spinal injury?
You could've crippled me, idiot.
Why do you do that?
-Do what?
-Deflect.
Back off, Dr. Phil. I do not deflect.
There you go again.
-Here.
So...
did you kill Foley?
Hamish took him to Vera.
Look, I'm fine.
You can go.
I'm not going anywhere.
Why are being so nice to me?
I need a reason to be nice to you?
Everybody wants something.
What you did today,
for me and Hamish...
That was legit.
Thanks for having our backs.
You know, just because I saved your ass
doesn't make us BFF's.
It doesn't make us not BFF's.
Okay, let's go.
Where are we going?
The den.
-That shithole?
-Yep.
What for?
I'm going to introduce you
to a little tradition called "après-kill".
You play foosball?
Are you kidding? I'm a total legend.
Oh, sick.
You know,
you're more than welcome to stay.
I know I am, but, uh...
I won't.
Pick it up, Miss Drake.
Gabrielle helped you?
Not just helped, she saved the day.
Gabrielle Dupres?
I know, right?
Oh, my God.
We have to help them.
Holy shit.
Foley.
Midnight.